Doc 11827 mobile vector search (#848)
couchbaselabs/docs-couchbase-lite: modules/swift/pages/vector-search.adoc

= Vector Search
:page-aliases: 
ifdef::show_edition[:page-edition: {release}]
ifdef::prerelease[:page-status: {prerelease}]
:page-role:
:description: Use Vector Search for AI applications.
:keywords: edge AI api swift ios macos apple vector search generative

== About Vector Search

> You can use Vector Search to efficiently find similar items or content based on the similarity of their vector representations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Vector Search to find top N items similar to a given item based on the similarity of their vector representations. 
```

Author: That sounds much better thank you. Done!

> This is particularly useful for large datasets and real-time response applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful for building Generative AI applications.
```

Author: Done!

Vector Search is a Similarity Search method that looks for approximated nearest vectors in localised vector space. 
These vectors are represented by arrays of numbers known as an embedding, which are generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) to represent objects such as text, images, and audio. 

== Applications of Vector Search

You can use Vector Search to efficently perform common operations on remote and document Vector Embeddings such as:

* Anomaly Detection - Identifying outliers with little relatedness

* Classification - Classifying text strings by their most similar text label

* Clustering - Grouping text strings by similarity

* Diversity Measurement - Analyzing similarity distributions

* Recommendations - Recommending items with related text strings

> * Search - Ranking results by similarity to given input strings

Reviewer: Not sure where you got the list from.   A lot of these appear to be more appropriate for server side and not something that you'd do locally on a device. Search and recommendations are good use cases.  
Also RAG use case- Application can get similarity results from search on CBL and then those results as context to LLM queries for customizing results. 
Please refer to the PRD for benefits of doing this locally -   data privacy, fast response, offline-first, query cost is cheaper

Please sync up with Iveta on this

> == About Vector Indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Vector Indexes
```

Reviewer: If we are discussing indexes in overview, shouldn't we also describe search here. So there are two components to vector search support
Index Creation and Search
We should have a section on "Search" that explains that we do similarity search based on distance metric - explain the two that we support. Also mention that we do K- nearest neighbor search.

Reviewer: I think we need a high level block diagram at top of page that summarizes how all this comes together
- Document Content -> Generate vector on Content  -> Create vector Index from vectors
- Search query -> Generate vector on query string ("target vector")   -> Vector search on the target vector 
CBL returns top N similar results

> Vector Indexes are objects used to efficiently perform similarity search on collections of vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vector Indexes are used to store and manage vector representations of content. They allow for efficient retrieval of  vectors similar to a target vector 
```

Author: Done!

> Before use, a Vector Index needs to be trained to compute the centroids and parameters for encoding the vectors. 

Reviewer: Thats not true.  Please watch Jen's show and tell video. Training starts with first query but you need a min number of vectors to train. Prior to that, all vectors are in same partition.
